Update documentation (#468)
linebender/vello: ARCHITECTURE.md

# Architecture

This document should be updated semi-regularly. Feel free to open an issue if it hasn't been updated in more than a year.

## Goals

The major goal of Vello is to provide a high quality GPU accelerated renderer suitable for a range of 2D graphics applications, including rendering for GUI applications, creative tools, and scientific visualization.

Vello emerges from being a research project, which attempts to answer these hypotheses:

- To what extent is a compute-centered approach better than rasterization ([Direct2D])?

> - To what extent do "advanced" GPU features (subgroups, descriptor arrays, device-scoped barriers) help?

Reviewer: I don't think the scare quotes are necessary. If the word doesn't seem nice then an alternative could be *modern*.
```suggestion
- To what extent do advanced GPU features (subgroups, descriptor arrays, device-scoped barriers) help?
```

- Can we improve quality and extend the imaging model in useful ways?

Another goal of the overall project is to explain how the renderer is built, and to advance the state of building applications on GPU compute shaders more generally.
Much of the progress on Vello is documented in blog entries.
See [doc/blogs.md](doc/blogs.md) for pointers to those.

## Roadmap

The [roadmap for 2023](doc/roadmap_2023.md) is still largely applicable.
The "Semi-stable encoding format" section and most of the "CPU fallback" section can be considered implemented.

Our current priority is to fill in missing features and to fix rendering artifacts, so that Vello can reach feature parity with other 2D graphics engines.

## File structure

The repository is structured as such:

- `crates/`
  - `encoding/` - Types that represent the data that needs to be rendered.

>   - `shaders/` - Infrastructure to compile pipelines and shaders; see "Shader templating". Note that the `vello` crate doesn't currently import this crate (see #467).

Reviewer: The #467 reference here and again a bit below should be links to the issue. They don't get auto-linked.

Author: I'd rather not. I'm in the mindset of keeping ARCHITECTURE.md easy to read in a text editor (unlike the README) so I don't want either inline links or deferred links.

I can say "issue #467" to be a bit more explicit.

Reviewer 2: I agree with your point on this, Olivier; and I like the compromise of adding the word ‘issue’.

Reviewer: What about:

```md
--- (see #467)
+++ [see #467]

or even just

+++ [#467]
```

I don't think that changing parentheses to brackets has a massive impact on the ease of reading in a text editor. However it allows us to define it as a link at the bottom of the file.

>   - `shaders/` - Infrastructure to compile pipelines and shaders; see "Shader templating". Note that the `vello` crate doesn't currently import this crate (see issue #467).

Reviewer: @DJMcNab [pointed out](https://github.com/linebender/vello/pull/478#discussion_r1508889374) that `vello_shaders` doesn't handle pipeline compilation. That's handled in whatever integration uses `vello_shaders`. Hence I think we should be more precise here in `ARCHITECTURE.md` as well.

```suggestion
  - `shaders/` - Infrastructure to preprocess and cross-compile shaders at compile time; see "Shader templating". Note that the `vello` crate doesn't currently import this crate (see issue #467).
```

`wgsl-analyzer` only supports imports in very few syntactic locations, so we limit their use to these places.

## Path encoding

See [Path segment encoding](./doc/pathseg.md) document.

## Intermediary layers

There are multiple layers of separation between "draw shape in Scene" and "commands are sent to wgpu":

- First, everything you do in `Scene` appends data to an `Encoding`.
The encoding owns multiple buffers representing compressed path commands, draw commands, transforms, etc. It's a linearized representation of the things you asked the `Scene` to draw.
- From that encoding, we generate a `Recording`, which is an array of commands; each `Command` represents an operation interacting with the GPU (think "upload buffer", "dispatch", "download buffer", etc).
- We then use `WgpuEngine` to send these commands to the actual GPU.

In principle, other backends could consume a `Recording`, but for now the only implemented wgpu backend is `WgpuEngine`.

### CPU rendering

The code in `cpu_shader/*.rs` and `cpu_dispatch.rs` provides *some* support for CPU-side rendering. It's in an awkward place right now:

- It's called through WgpuEngine, so the dependency on wgpu is still there.

> - Fine rasterization (the part at the end that puts pixels on screen) doesn't work in CPU yet (see #386).

Reviewer: This #386 should also be made into a link.
